---
layout: post
title: Yearly review for 2013
---

Here is a list of my goals for 2013

* Execute 1 idea
* Travel to 4 cities
* Make a list of important friends and family and call them every 3 weeks
* Build and launch an iOS application
* Get to 160 pounds

Lets see how things went.

#### _Execute 1 idea_

I have to say this was one of my worst goals of the year. I did made some of progress on my application - [Unagi](https://unagihq.com). But as far as	 execution is concerned, I don't know where I am. I have very recently start talking to potential customers, which I should have started doing much earlier. I would definitely work on this in the coming year.

#### _Travel to 4 different cities_

Success. We travelled to New York City in January, then New Delhi in May, Las Vegas in July, Providenciales (Turks and Caicos Islands) in October and then I was able to able to go to Miami for RubyConf 2013. So I ended up going to 5 cities this year.

#### _Make a list of important friends and family and call them every 3 weeks_

I didn't pay enough attention to this goal than I should have. The easiest part was to make the list, but then following through on it was hard. I kept postponing giving people a call and reverted to just sending WhatsApp/Facebook messages which was totally the opposite of what I was trying to do.

#### _Build and launch an iOS application_

Fail. I did not spend anytime on this at all.

#### _Get to 160 pound_

I started the year at 185 lbs. I have been paying alot more attention to what I eat specially my carb consumption. I think I am going to try the [slow carb diet](http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2012/07/12/how-to-lose-100-pounds/) this coming year and also work out a lot more. I got injured a lot this year playing squash and need more core strength. However, all said and done I didn't get to 160 pounds. I weigh in at 176 pounds right now. So I lost 9 lbs. Still alot of work to do.

<p class="tldr"></p>

<div class="name" style="color: #888;">
	It's frustrating to have a 20% conversion rate for the goals I had set for myself. I think, its great to make actionable and measurable goals but at the same time they need to be revisited multiple times during the year to track progress. I didn't pay much attention to my goals through out the year. Also, It's important to keep track of what you do in a year, but it equally important to keep track of what you are not going to do. Hard work can be the biggest cop out for people. Just putting in hours is not going to lead to success, focussed hard work is. I can keep working hard and building features no one wants or I can talk to customers and figure out what they want. That is where my focus is going to be 2014.
</div>