---
layout: post
title: Goals for Year 2014
---

This is a list of personal goals that I would like to achieve in the coming year. The main focus is to be as specific as possible so that it could be measured easily through out the year.

# Get 100 paying customers for Unagi
I would like to get a 100 paying customers for [Unagi](https://unagihq.com) this year. I am going to actively market the application and reach out to people via email/linkedin/twitter. My goal is to send out atleast 365 cold emails this year. I am also going to try and lurk around the forums where discussions around ERP systems happen.

# Get healthier
The goal is to get to 170 pounds by June 2014 and 160 pounds by end of year. I am going to play squash atleast 4 times a week and start working out a few times a week. As far as eating better is concerned, I am going to cut the meat consumption and not eat any meat Tuesdays and Thursdays.

# No credit card debt
I am going to pay off all the credit cards each month and carry no debt at all.

# Save more money
I was not super comfortable sharing the numbers publically here but I have a sense of the exact amount that I would like to save this year. May be I would publish that at some time.

# Ship something everyday
I would like to ship atleast one thing everyday. This could be a blog post or piece of code or anything else. As long a commit is made to Github, it counts

# Write 1000 words everyday
I would like to get in the habit of writing every day. It doesn't matter whether I am writing a blog post, documentation, white paper, email course, copy for the web site, it counts. All I need to do is to write 1000 words.