---
layout: post
title: Turning 30
description: What are some of the things I have learnt after 30 years on this planet.
---

I turned 30 on Dec 15 2014 and I have been thinking about what I have learnt so far. Coming to the US has been the best learning experience of my life. I miss my friends and family back home, but I have met some amazing people here as well. I don't think I would change much if I could go back in time, but if their was some advice I would like to pass on to my 20 year old, here is what I would say.


<h2 class="important">Relationships are always evolving.</h2>
<p>I know more about my wife than I did before we got married. Is that scary? Hell yeah. But it keeps things interesting. Same goes for friends and family around you.</p>

<h2 class="important">Only spend time with the people you care about deeply.</h2>
<p>When you are 20 years old, you want to have as many friends as possible. You want to the popular person who gets invited to everthing. That changes quickly. You realize how much better it is to have a core set of friends that you really care about and like hanging out with. Surround yourself with people who will be there for you when you really need them. And this feeling has to be mutual.</p>

<h2 class="important">Be nice to people.</h2>
<p>Everyone is fighting their own battles in life. And nothing good ever comes out of being mean to people. Treat others around you the way you would like to be treated.</p>

<h2 class="important">Invest in experiences than objects.</h2>
<p>Instead of buying stuff that will get old in a few months, spend that money of something that will stay with you for a long time. You could go on a vacation, take a cooking class, may be go to beer making class. The possibilities are endless.</p>

<h2 class="important">Take care of your body and mind.</h2>
<p>If you lose either one of the above, you will be dead. And you should not want that. So be sure to take out some time every day to take care of body and mind.</p>

<h2 class="important">Learn to say "No".</h2>
<p><a href="https://sivers.org/" target="_blank">Derek Sivers</a> says <a href="https://sivers.org/hellyeah" target="_blank">"Hell Yeah or No - Say No to everything that you would not say 'Hell Yeah' to."</a>. What's the point of doing something that you don't feel like doing.</p>
