---
layout: post
title: 2015 Annual Review
description: Thoughts on what well and what didn't in 2015.
---

Like a lot of other people, last week of December is normally a time of reflection for me. I like to think about what I can take from this year into the next and what can I leave behind. This exercise is very personal but I do like to document it so that I can come back to it whenever I want and also see where I have come from. This is my third consecutive year of doing self reviews after [2014](http://shubhambansal.com/posts/review-2014) and [2013](http://shubhambansal.com/posts/review-2013).

This year was really challenging and special. Our daughter [Aryaa](https://twitter.com/aryaabansal) was born in March this year. I underestimated how challenging parenting was going to be. Frankly the first 3 months were the toughest, more so for Deepti as Aryaa would keep us awake on most nights. Everything else took a backseat during that time and as a result work on [DomReactor](https://domreactor.com) also slowed down. However after a big push in August we were able to ship DomReactor and it went live on September 1 which was a big achievement for us.

The biggest learning this year was around how to manage my time. I had to say "No" to a lot of things. I wanted to focus my time spending time with the family, working full time, working on DomReactor and also making sure I was also paying attention to my health. As a result, socially, my life took a real hit which is something I would like to work on in 2016.

#Things that went well#

<h2 class="important">Meditation</h2>
<p>I am not consistently able to meditate almost every day for 15-20 minutes. And I am able to see the effects of it in my daily life. I feel a lot more patient and also at peace with things happening around me. It is normal to get agitated, but my response to it is very different now. I meditated 171 times this year for 15 mins each. That is about 2565 mins or 43 hours approx. Not too bad.</p>

<h2 class="important">DomReactor</h2>
<p>We shipped DomReactor finally on September 1. Getting something in front of people in the real world and getting feedback about what you have built is an amazing motivator.</p>

<h2 class="important">Travel</h2>
<p>We took three trips with Aryaa this year: India, New York and Hawaii(Maui and Kauai). There were some minor hiccups here and there but overall it was really good.</p>

<h2 class="important">Squash and health</h2>
<p>I probably played the best squash of my life this year. I was able to keep up with people who are much better than I am. As for my general health, I currently weigh at 167 lbs which is the lightest I have been since almost my freshman year college.</p>

#Things that didn't go too well#


<h2 class="important">Relationships and social life</h2>
<p>This year my social life took a real hit. Deepti and I were not great with planning our date nights. Also I didn't spend time as much time with my friends as I would have liked. I have definitely underestimated parenting and the amount of planning it takes now. I don't like to miss out on Aryaa's bath time so a lot of my evenings were spent at home. 2016 is going to be focussed towards planning get togethers with friends and family to have more of a balance.</p>

<h2 class="important">Reading</h2>
<p>I only read 8 books this year and my goal was to read at least 2 books a month. I am going to try to read a lot more in 2016 and get to my goal of 24 books during the year.</p>

<h2 class="important">Writing</h2>
<p>Another one of those areas where I really wanted to get better at. However I didn't even come close to writing a post a week which is something I am not super excited about. This would definitely be a big area of focus for next year.</p>

<h2 class="important">DomReactor</h2>
<p>I know this is also a part of the other list as well, but their were things that didn't go too well here as well. Trying to run a business on the side is super hard. My energy level fluctuated a lot during the year and as a result there was not a lot of consistency around working on DomReactor. Some months were amazing and some months were very sluggish. I think I am finally getting to the point where I am able to consistently find and spend time working on DomReactor.</p>

#So what's it going to be in 2016#

​​I have been thinking a lot about what I want to accomplish in 2016. I don't think my goals are different from 2015. However this year I am not going to be disclose the goals publicly. Rather I have identified 5 themes that I would like to follow this year.

<h2 class="bold">Do something for the mind</h2>
<p>This is going to be mostly around mindfullness and meditation.</p>
<h2 class="bold">Do something for the body</h2>
<p>This is going to be getting around getting better physically, staying injury free and playing even better squash.</p>
<h2 class="bold">Learn something new</h2>
<p>This could be by reading, writing or making new things.</p>
<h2 class="bold">Do something out of my comfort zone</h2>
<p>Not figured this out yet.</p>
<h2 class="bold">Work on relationships</h2>
<p>Find and spend more time with family and friends.</p>
