---
layout: post
title: Turning 30
description: What are some of the things I have learnt after 30 years on this planet.
---

I turned 30 on Dec 15 2014 and I have been thinking a lot about some of the things that I did this past decade. There were some ups and downs obviously. But, looking back things went pretty well. 

I graduated college with a mediocre degree but with amazing friends. Coming to US was the probably the most challenging part though. But it was also the best decision that I could have possible made. I have met so many amazing people here who became great friends as well. 

I met this amazing girl and ended up getting married to her. Soon we will be parents.

However there is this one thing I have thinking a lot lately. If I were to do a do over, what advice would I give my 20 old self? 

<!--more-->

Here are some of the things that I could think of.

* **Spend most of your time with people you care about.**

* **Stop trying to make everyone happy**. If you go that path, you will be miserable.

* **Learn to use the word "No"**. Alot. 

* **Invest in experiences rather than objects**. Stop buying stuff that you won't need in a couple of months. Instead spend that money on going on a vacation or may be taking a cooking class, an experience you will cherish for a long time.

* **Take care of body and the body will take care of you.**

* **Don't take life too seriously**. Think about the last time you really messed up? Now think about what happened in the end. Even if you mess up at any point, things tend to work out in the end. They have for me. Every. Single. Time.

* **Cultivate good habits**. Take the decision making out of most things in your life by building good habits. You should be eating healthy, build a habit around that. Working out daily. Build a habit around that. Mediate, Journal, Write, Read. All these things can be done every day if we just take the decision making of whether we want to do them or not. And how do you do that. Build a habit to do these things every day.


